# Machine Learning Final Project/ Classifying Disaster Tweets Using BERT

## The Goal

In today’s information age, the widespread use of social
media platforms is a promising method for early response
to local disaster management. The dynamic nature of social
media presents an opportunity to leverage the collective
data generated by users to identify and validate potentially
hazardous events in real time. This information can form
a foundation for informed decision-making, contributing
to a timely and appropriate allocation of resources to an
observed disaster.
The vast amount of data presented to users, by users,
presents both a benefit and a limitation when developing
appropriate responses to situations. The ability to find
authentic reports of natural disasters in social media con-
tent is pivotal for effective disaster management, both to
respond quickly to active events and to protect against the
misallocation of resources to a false event. Consequently,
developing reliable methods to filter social media data to
identify true natural disasters is paramount.
In the pursuit of increasing the reliability of early disaster
response through social media, this project investigates and
evaluates different methodologies for classification. The
project relies on textual mapping to a vector representation
to enable the use of known machine-learning methods to
find social media posts reporting natural disasters.
The dataset for this project is from Kaggle [2] and
serves as a very straightforward Natural Language Pro-
cessing (NLP) task for those learning NLP. This dataset
is well explored and high-performing models are usually
based on modern Transformer Neural Network architectures
such as BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from
Transformers) for interpreting natural language as in [4].
As a result, the team proposes using BERT to transform
the tweets into features for each of the machine-learning
methods.
